# Developer environment heaven saga

Since 2006 I switched to Apple ecosystem from Windows, and after the first day I was certain that I would never come back, at least for leisure and working. Except for the fact that I'm addicted to video-gaming, since Atari I follow the gaming industry with passion, so I know that I could end up with a Windows machine again, but that would be just to play games.

One thing that made me happy instantaneously into Apple and more specifically ~~OS X~~ macOS was how nice and neatly organized it is. I remember when I first experienced how to install an application by just drag and drop its 'icon' (the application bundle) into the applications folder, that was something so pleasant and reliable and most importantly, the way that makes more sense for this kind of need. 

I'm an organization freak with certain things, mostly related to computer files and folders. This also applies to how projects are organized, I like to have as few as possible files and folders for a project, I can't bear with NodeJS projects with a lot of 'configuration files' at its root, and knowing that this is sort of a standard really disappoints me.

On my machine and the projects that I  

Another thing that is great about Nix and this setup is the fact that each project shows very well what dependencies they need. By looking at the `flake.nix` file is possible to see application level dependencies alongside OS dependencies. For instance, this personal website is mainly using `NodeJS` but it also uses `DuckDB` as is possible to see in the `flake.nix` file.


Good Nix docs
https://nixos-and-flakes.thiscute.world/
https://zero-to-nix.com
Discourse
https://discourse.nixos.org