Hands-on Software Engineer with 16+ years of experience out of 8+ years in management leading teams 20+ software and machine learning engineers. Over the past 5 years, I've been focused on machine learning projects, data engineering and MLOps/productization. I have a strong background in Java and Python, and also comfortable working with other languages. I have read and try to follow the agile manifesto. I'm a pragmatic person and I like to get things done. I'm a fast learner, and I'm always looking to learn new things. I'm a team player and I like to share my knowledge with others. I'm a good communicator and I like to work with people from different backgrounds and cultures. I prefer simple solutions over complex ones, and I'm a fan of open source.

## Recent projects
- Quality Estimation API (https://api.taus.net), an application that accurately estimates the quality of machine translation output. The API is built using Python, FastAPI, Pydantic, PySpark, and PyTorch. The API is deployed on AWS EC2 GPU/cuda instances with Spring Cloud Gateway and Memached for caching. The API is deployed using Docker and GitHub Actions. Also, a full MLOps pipeline is in place for training and deploying new models, using PyTorch, Iterative/DVC/TPI, AWS S3/Lambda. The API currently process over 50 million characters per day.
- Revamped the TAUS website (https://taus.net), replaced Joomla with using Nuxt.js v3, Tailwind CSS, and Storyblok CMS. Joomla is great and a nice CMS but we had just one person in the company who knew how to work with it, with the revamp we have a much more flexible and modern website that is straightforward to maintain and update by anyone in the company. The website is deployed on AWS ECS using Docker and GitHub Actions. This application also integrates with other microservices for authentication and authorization and user management.
- TAUS Data Marketplace (https://datamarketplace.taus.net), a marketplace for language data. The marketplace is built using Java 17, Spring Boot/MVC/Security/Kafka/Data, JPA/Hibernate, QueryDSL, Jackson, Flyway, Gradle, AWS RDS MySQL. The marketplace is deployed on AWS ECS using Docker and GitHub Actions with OpenId Connect authorization.
- A serverless Data architecture for data processing and analytics. The architecture is built using Spring Camel, Apache Camel, QueryDSL/SQL, AWS Lambda/S3/Aurora/SNS/SQS/ECS, to AWS ECS using GitHub Actions. The data processing starts by uploading a file to S3 which triggers a lambda function that checks if there is enough AWS ECS Tasks available (rate limiting) to process the file, if not it triggers a new task otherwise forwards the message to a SQS queue which later will be consumed by the task. The task once completed sends a notifications to SNS where other components (ECS Tasks) will consume the message and process the data. Errors are sent to a SQS DLQ for further investigation.
- A machine learning pipeline to train and inference a model to predict the amount of baking articles that should be baked for one of the Europe's biggest retail supermarket chains. The pipeline is built using Python, PySpark, Numpy, Pandas, Jinja, Apache Hadoop, Hive and Spotify Luigi.
- Extensive FinOps project to that reduced the AWS bill by 50% by optimizing the infrastructure and services used. The reduction was achieved by cleaning up unused services, data, logs, and switching AWS some workloads to Spot instances, making use of AWS Savings Plans, and AWS Reserved Instances.

## Skills

Below is a list of tools, technologies, concepts and languages I've worked with and continue to have interest in. This is not an extensive list, but it gives an idea of what I feel comfortable in working with:

### Java
Core, JPA/Hibernate/QueryDSL, JDBC, Bean Validation, NIO, Streams, Concurrency. I started work with Java 1.3 and have been using it ever since. I've worked with Java 8, 11, 17. I've worked with several application servers, such as Tomcat, Jetty, JBoss, and WebLogic.
I'm well-versed in the Spring framework and its various modules, such as Spring Boot, MVC, Security, Kafka, Camel, Data, Cloud, Rest Docs and others. Other relevant libraries/frameworks Flyway, Jackson/Custom De/Serializers/View Groups, JUnit, Cucumber, Gradle, and Maven.

### Python
I have been coding in python for the last 6 years, and I have gained sufficient knowledge in the language to create Web API's, Machine Learning pipelines, and general computation. I worked with libraries such as pathlib, os, pandas, numpy, scikit-learn, scipy, PySpark, Keras, PyTorch, Pydantic, Spotify Luigi, BeautifulSoup4, SQLAlchemy, FastAPI, setuptools, Poetry, Kedro. I also have experience with Pyenv and (mini)conda.

### Front-end 
I know very well Node.js, JavaScript and its ecosystem and frameworks like Vue.js v2/3, NuxtJS v3 as several others like Tailwind CSS, and headless CMS like Storyblok CMS, and Strapi CMS. I have a good understanding of the Node.js and JavaScript ecosystem and can do front-end development.

### Architectural styles
I have experience with microservices, event-driven, and serverless architectures. Of course, I have created monolith applications and have experience with the strangler pattern.

### Integration
Apache Camel, CXF, web/HTTP/ReST APIs.

### Data processing
Batch, streaming, data pipelines, and data lakes, delta lake (medallion architecture), and data warehouses.

### Storage/Databases/Cache
I have solid knowledge of SQL, which helps me when working with various persistence technologies. I've used MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MongoDB, AWS DynamoDB, Hive, Pig, Hadoop, Memcache, Redis, and vector databases such as Milvus or just S3 or Google Cloud Storage.

### Data Engineering and Analytics
I have an understanding of MapReduce, CDC concepts, data dimension and modeling, ETL, data ingestion, cleaning, wrangling, transformation, analytics, and reporting/BI. I've knowledge and experience with Apache Kafka/KSQLDB, Flink, Spark, and Delta Lakes, Databricks Medallion Pattern/Data Live Tables and Streaming. I've also worked with Apache Airflow, Spotify Luigi, and AWS Glue. Additionally, I'm familiar with statistical analysis techniques.

### DevOps/IaC/Automation
I have experience with GitHub Actions, Jenkins, AWS CDK, Docker, Docker Compose, and Kubernetes. 

### Infrastructure/Cloud
Clouds that I feel most comfortable with are AWS and Google Cloud. I've basic knowledge on Azure. I've worked with AWS EC2, ECS, EKS, Lambda, S3, RDS, Aurora, DynamoDB, SQS, SNS, CloudWatch, CloudTrail, CloudFront, Route53, API Gateway, IAM, and others. I've also worked with Google Cloud Storage, Google Cloud Functions, Google Cloud Run, Google Cloud Pub/Sub, Google Cloud SQL, Google Cloud IAM, and others. I've also worked with Heroku, Render.com, Fly.io, and Modal.com.
